Meta-learning Course 

Quiz 1: NALISH  JAIN  nalish21543@iiitd.ac.in 

Q1. Which of the following are considered to be 'core knowledge priors' required to solve ARC tasks, as in the paper "Measure of Intelligence"?

✓(a) "Objectness", i.e., objects as cohesive entities that persist and may or may not be in contact with each other. True

 (b) The ability to write computer programs that can transform an input grid to the desired output grid. False

✓(c) Numbers and counting, including sorting colours, objects etc. by size, frequency etc. True

✓(d) Geometry and topology, i.e., basic shapes, inside or outside shape, symmetries, being connected vs separate, scaling etc. True

Score: 5.0

Q2. Which of the following statements regarding traditional meta-learning algorithms are correct?

✓(a) Matching networks learn a distance metric while being meta-trained over many tasks. True

 (b) MAML and CNPs both learn 'the learning procedure' itself and encode this in their weights during meta-training. False

✓(c) Optimisation-based meta-learning only learns a good initialisation using which a network can rapidly be fine-tuned for a new few-shot task. True

✓(d) Full-context embeddings of the support set are/can be used in both CNPs as well as matching networks. True

Score: 5.0

Q3. Which of the scenarios are traditional math-learning techniques well suited for:

✓(a) Few-shot learning where each task is a classification tasks comprising of a few examples from each class though the classes may differ from task to task. True

 (b) Few-shot learning where each tasks comprises of a few examples though the number of features as well as nature each task is different every time, i.e., classification, regression etc. False

 (c) Few-shot learning where each task involves a few training examples of generating an output for a given input, and task is to analogously generate the correct output for a test input. False

✓(d) Few-shot learning where each task involves predicting an output variable, e.g., a forecast, given input  features from the same domain (e.g. fixed-size images or fixed-dimension time-series), but the distribution relating outputs to inputs changes from task to task. True

Score: 5.0

